# Anis-Makesh-WORK

Throughout this project we got to learn a lot about Hemodynamics and the way blood flows throughout veins and arteries. 

To do the simulations, I used MATLAB and SolidWorks. In MATLAB, I used the Finite Element Analysis Toolbox (FEAToolbox Multiphysics) which can be downloaded using the APPS tab and selecting it through the Add-ins available there. FEAToolbox allows users to perform Computational Fluid Dynamics calculations by utilising different flow equations such as the Navier-Stokes Equations and set up a simulation with variable Geometry, Equation and Boundary Settings. For the simulation on, laminar flow, Vein blood flow and blood flow for someone with Artherosclerosis a 2D space dimention setting was used. 

Also in MATLAB, an add-in called 'Hagen-Poiseuille Flow' was used to show variation of velocity across the cross section of arteries & veins and the variation of shear stress across different blood vessels. With SolidWorks, I did two simulations: the first one looked at creating a laminar fluid flow in a tube and the second simulation was one which simulated blood flow between veins and arteries, by creating a venturi effect tube shape. I have uploaded the SolidwWorks Part file for both the simulations and also included a PDF & Word document describing the results from these simulations. Also included in this repository is the written notes that forms the background for this Problem Solving Industrial Visit. 

For the SolidWorks Fluid Flow simulations, the Flow Simulation Add-in was required. This was not available with my Student License so the computers in the Fulton Building were used to utilise this specific simulation tool. Then a tool call 'Wizard' was used for the fluid simulations. It included blood as a pre-defined Non-Newtonian Liquid and it was selected for the simulation. It was crucial to use this feature as Newtoniam fluids and Non-Newonian fluids are different. Newtonian fluids have constant viscosity whereas Non-Newtonian fluids have variable viscosity, also Non-Newtonian fluids have a variable relationship with shear stress. Subsequently, wall thermal conditions had to be defined. With average blood temperature being 37C , the wall temperature were  set to 310 Kelvin for an accurate representation. Then the dimentions were set to represent blood veins and arteries, and the simulation was run. The Temperature, Density, Velocity and Pressure were extracted from these simulations and are included in the PDFs in the repository.

The PDFs and Word files mainly the theoretical background and results whereas the MATLAB code/extentions and SolidWorks files contain active work undertaken throughout the project timeframe. I thoroughly enjoyed this project and especially understanding the vascular anatomy and hemodynamics of blood flow and creating simulations using Computational Fluid Dynamics principles. 

This repository contains all of the work undertaken by Anis Makesh during the Biomedical Engineering Design module.

